w3-protocol spec (#5)
web3-storage/specs: w3-account.md

In web2 direct correlation between account and user leads to the system in which users fund their accounts.

However decoupling users from the accounts _(as described in previous section)_ we can enable kinds of account funding strategies.  To do so we take inspiration from [solana accounts][] _(or many other blockchains)_ and define `Account` as a "data storage" with a "cash balance" to fund it's operation. This framing implies that:

1. Accounts can be crowdfunded _(any one can donate/send funds)_ to increase it's balance.
2. Account may be owned by a different entity from one funding it.
3. Accounts may be used for shared datasets, creating convinient ways to share things without introducing data hierarchies or [ACL][]s.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119).

### Representation

Any valid [did:key][] identifier SHOULD represent a valid w3 account. Unknown accounts MAY be treated as an account with `0` balance/capacity and MAY be denied service.

:::info

> All actors in w3 are also identified by [did:key][], but most [did:key]s will not correspond to accounts _(even if according to definition they technically are)_. Differnece between agent and account DIDs is purely in semantics and while same [did:key][] could be used for both, we enourage not to as two have to deal with very different threat models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All actors in w3 are also identified by [did:key][], but most [did:key]s will not correspond to accounts _(even if according to definition they technically are)_. Difference between agent and account DIDs is purely in semantics and while same [did:key][] could be used for both, we encourage not to as two have to deal with very different threat models.
```
